Okay, so
when it comes to choosing conventions,
how do we choose these conventions?
And so there are three main stages when
it comes to implementing like these
conventions that we wanna pitch.
And so the first one is selecting,
selecting the convention that
your team is going to use.
And the very first thing you have to be
able to do is define the problem properly.
And so what do I mean by this?
A lot of times when we talk about things
like tabs, spaces and these conventions
that make up our ultimate like developer
experience across an entire company,
things are rarely objective and
absolute, right?
It's rarely like, well, research has
shown that 100% of the time people
who use tabs and twos or people use
spaces as invitation with two spaces,
are 30% more productive
than developers user.
It's basically almost never that cut and
dry.
Because the makeup of each
team is individualistic, and
as a result they need to
be considered as such.
And so when you're defining a problem,
you need to find a problem
that matters to your team,
that actually will have a measurable
impact on what they're going to do.
And so as you're selecting these and
having those discussions,
the key thing I'd like to recommend
here is to avoid bike shedding.
And so if you're not familiar with bike
shedding, it's this general concept that's
referred to like basically arguing
over something that's small, and
spending a lot of time over it even
though it doesn't really matter.
Okay, and so with the bike shedding right,
and like discussed and
basically fighting over
tabular space in these things.
The way to avoid these things there
are three primary ways to consider, and
the first of which is
time constraint voting.
And so have those discussions
right dedicate an entire hour
long meeting to make sure that people can
present their points and what they think.
But then at the end of it, go ahead and
have everyone vote to
see what they wanna try.
So let's just keep with the tabular
spaces indentation example.
So if most of the team says you now what,
I think two spaces is
the way we should go.
Then the key here the concept you wanna
keep consistent with your team is to
disagree and commit.
And so it's true some people will still
be feel very passionately about tabs.
But then what you do now is you
do a 3 month trial on this piece.
And so this is like the 3
month discussion freeze.
And the reason this is important
when you're discussing these votes,
is because you want to ensure that your
team doesn't feel locked in by it, right?
That's, I think, one of the hardest things
that when it comes to selecting technology
is there is this feeling of permanency and
conventions definitely
have that feeling as well.
They're like, once you choose this
convention it's over, it's done.
And so this is why you see a lot
of discussions around conventions.
Basically people were like, tried very
hard to overturn something cuz they're
afraid they'll be stuck with it forever.
And so with three months discussion
freezes you lower that sort of you
create an emotionally safe zone.
Where you can say, okay, we're going
to try for a timebox period and
see how everything feels, and then we
can re-examine those discussions later.
This is a great way to again make
progress towards conventions,
especially on these sort
of larger applications.
We have so many people that it would
basically be near impossible to get like
a unanimous vote on things.
So these are ways you can use to select
those conventions for your team.
As far as implementation goes,
I refer to this a little bit a second ago
with the unit testing, but the key here
with implementing any convention is
to automate it, automate everything.
So when you're deciding on conventions for
how JavaScript should look, semi colons,
indentation, whether or not it should have
a trailing comma, all of these things,
they should be handled by linters.
Because the moment you expect
someone to be responsible for
this piece, you're basically
introducing room for human error.
And more importantly,
people wanna focus on writing code.
And as someone who's gone through
this type of pull request before,
one of the worst reviews you
can get on a PR is just,
can you add a dangling comment to that?
We use dangling commas in our codebase,
right?
And so when you automate things,
you make it easy for
everyone to follow the conventions,
while like focusing on the key pieces.
And so with eslint, stylelint,
markdownlint like whatever it is.
These I generally recommend
running at the pre commit hook, so
that once it's committed, it's already
been formatted everything's been added.
And this way like developers and
so kind of write code the way
they would normally do.
And then when they commit
it to the code base,
which is where the standard
really needs to be enforced,
then at the pre commit hook,
it will automatically link to everything.
And then we are good to go.
Basically, like your pull
requests can focus on the things
that actually matter going forward.
Formatters are another good way
of addressing the implementation
piece as well.
So in this particular case most of you
are probably familiar with prettier.
So it ensures that everything looks
similar in terms of not only indentation.
But like how many characters
should it go over the line,
whether it should add
certain stylistic elements.
Standardizing these things and
including them, for example,
as a prettier RC where the configuration
is the same for everyone, is
also like a great way of at least pushing
those standards forward and conventions.
So that people can get used to basically
working in that environment and
basically getting familiarity with it.
Image optimization is another popular one.
I've worked on code bases where there's
no image optimization pipeline.
So anytime a developer wants to
add an image into their codebase
because the designer handed them
something, they had to manually go and
basically either requested the designer
for like the individual sizes they needed.
Or they need to go ahead and
run it through an optimizer.
And that is a waste of time from
a pipeline perspective, right?
And so if your best practice is hey,
we wanna deliver best practice convention.
It the convention is that we ensure
that the images we deliver to customers
are always as small as possible and
optimized correctly.
Then you wanna automate that
image optimization process,
because that way someone who's not
familiar with the process, right?
Who hasn't been working at the company for
six months and
maybe this is our first time
interacting with designers.
Like they're not gonna submit a PR with
an image that's not optimized without
the right break points, which then you
have to spend time to then go back and
go hey, by the way,
this is how we do things.
Things like optimization can 100% be
automated because you have to run it
through a build pipeline.
And then as long as you meet
the minimum requirements of say,
having the image be at like 2X for
example.
There are tools that allow you to then
either resize images correctly and
then optimize them accordingly.
And so these sorts of things
also should be automated.
And generators, we talked a little about
this earlier, but generators if you can
think of it this way is so let me
the easiest way here is to show you here.
So in the view enterprise boilerplate
this is probably the best place
to start if you're thinking
about doing your own generator.
So here you'll see that inside of
the view enterprise boilerplate,
there are actually basically
boilerplate scaffolds for things.
So in this case, you'll see that this
component is scaffolded in this case,
like Chris also uses the script
template style sort of order.
But on top of that,
it actually also goes ahead and
make sure is that like the language SASS
or the preprocessor SASS is configured and
that by default,
it's using the CSS modules.
And then on top of that, you'll see he's
even optimized it to the point where
it automatically imports
the design variable.
So that's not something you have to do.
And so this kind of automation is super
useful because again, as I mentioned to be
here before, you'll see that we actually
have here a dynamic test generator.
That will go ahead and import the correct
component that you're trying to create.
And then it will say that it
exports a valid component and
then it basically has a sample scaffold,
that will run this will this will pass
basically 100% of time unless
you do something horribly wrong.
And this just works.
And so generators here, basically you
can think of generators for anything.
As you can see he has end to end tests,
whether they're for layouts, modules,
utilities.
Generators are probably one of the best
ways to enforce consistency across your
project.
Because the moment you need to rely
on a developer to copy and paste or
create files in a certain way.
Basically, when you're at scale that's
basically never going to work and
you will introduce a lot of human error.
The final piece of the automation piece,
so for
those who don't know VS Code allows you
to create, basically code snippets.
And so an example of this is
Sarah Drasner she has her VS Code,
like snippet pack extension,
which allows you to basically do things
like when you're scaffolding
components to basically do like SFC.
And then when you hit enter,
it'll actually go ahead and
like scaffold out,
the pieces for you accordingly.
And so in VS Code, you can actually
create, you can commit like
a VS Code folder to your repo that
contains like the various snippets.
That your teammates can then use to then
scaffold out different pieces that you
might want different standards on.
And so this is another great way of
introducing conventions to your team.